Privacy 2025 Markdown (#4335)
HTTPArchive/almanac.httparchive.org: src/content/en/2025/privacy.md

analysts: [max-ostapenko]
max-ostapenko_bio: Max Ostapenko is a Product Lead at [Masthead Data](https://mastheadata.com/) and a core maintainer of HTTP Archive, specializing in adtech and data monetization.
authors: [RumaisaHabib, nrllh, securient]
nrllh_bio: Nurullah Demir is a visiting postdoctoral scholar at Stanford University and the founder of the cyber security platform SecuSeek. His work focuses on internet-scale security and privacy risks.
RumaisaHabib_bio: Rumaisa Habib is a third year PhD candidate working with the Empirical Security Research Group at Stanford University. Rumaisa's primary research interest is to build a better understanding of the web beyond the Western context leveraging large scale Internet measurements.
securient_bio: Vinod is a Staff Security Engineer at PIP Labs with over a decade of cybersecurity experience at companies including Amazon, Zapier, and HackerOne. He specializes in penetration testing and cloud security, writes about security on Medium, and actively researches emerging threats in both traditional and Web3 environments.
reviewers: [JannisBush]

> JannisBush_bio: TBD

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JannisBush_bio: Jannis Rautenstrauch is a PhD candidate at [CISPA](https://cispa.de/en). In his research he performs internet measurements to evaluate the security and privacy landscape of the Web.
```

  content="75%",
  classes="big-number",
  sheets_gid="2064348596",
  sql_file="tracker_distribution.sql"
)
}}

We see at least one third-party tracker in 75% of all webpages (75%: desktop, 74%: mobile), 55% of desktop webpages contain 2 and 39% contain 3 trackers. Up to 6 trackers setup happens more often in desktop pages, while 7 and more trackers are seen more often in mobile pages.

### Stateful tracking

Tracking mechanisms are categorized as stateful or stateless. Stateful methods, such as cookies and local storage, store identifying information on the user device. In contrast, stateless methods, like fingerprinting, infer this information at runtime from unique characteristics.

#### Third-party tracking services

{{ figure_markup(
  image="most-common-whotracksme-categories.png",
  caption="Most common WhotracksMe categories",
  description="Bar chart showing the percentage of websites using different tracker categories according to WhoTracksMe. CDN is the most common tracker category (74%), followed by advertising (59%), essential trackers (55%), and site analytics (52%). Other categories like audio/video players (12%) and social media (9%) have lower adoption.",

>   chart_url="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vRC5wrzy5NEsWNHn9w38RLsMURRScnP4jgjO1mDiVhsfFCY55tujlTUZhUaEWzmPtJza0QA7w8S4uK5/pubchart?oid=1654856624&format=interactive",

Reviewer 2: Please remove "Chapter" from all the charts:

<img width="1224" height="262" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/539b0a2e-d976-4308-83e6-43632afd418c" />

It's not supposed to be there and even used inconsistently here (e.g. first graph doesn't have it, most of the rest do).

Also if you can double the "desktop" and "mobile" labels and capitalise the first letter while you're at it then that's better. But not something we always remember to do elsewhere.

Please retake the images for mobile after making the changes.

However, the scale of this data collection raises significant privacy concerns, making it a widely discussed topic in [technical](https://www.w3.org/TR/tracking-compliance/) and [political spheres](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/reg/2016/679/oj/eng), and a major area of [ongoing research](https://pulse-of-cybersecurity.com/topics?sortBy=total-papers&sortOrder=desc&page=1&pageSize=21&search=web&topic=Web+Tracking+and+Browser+Fingerprinting&conferences=%5B%5D). While developers utilize various technologies to track users, such as HTTP cookies and browser fingerprinting, there is a corresponding rise in privacy measures. These include browser-based restrictions, regulatory compliance tools, and privacy-enhancing extensions.

In this chapter, we provide a technical overview of the state of web privacy. We analyze the adoption of common tracking mechanisms and examine the prevalence of measures designed to prevent tracking, offering a data-driven look at the current landscape of user data collection.

## Online tracking

**75%**

> *Websites with at least one tracker*

Reviewer: Something is wrong here.
I think it should be something like this:

```
{{ figure_markup(
  content="98.8%",
  caption="The percentage of requests that use HTTPS (mobile).",
  classes="big-number",
  sheets_gid="530740578",
  sql_file="https_request_over_time.sql",
) }}
```

### Stateful tracking

Tracking mechanisms are categorized as stateful or stateless. Stateful methods, such as cookies and local storage, store identifying information on the user device. In contrast, stateless methods, like fingerprinting, infer this information at runtime from unique characteristics.

#### Third-Party Tracking services

{{ figure_markup(
  image="most-common-whotracksme-categories.png",
  caption="Most common WhotracksMe categories",
  description="Bar chart showing the percentage of websites using different tracker categories according to WhoTracksMe. CDN is the most common tracker category (74%), followed by advertising (59%), essential trackers (55%), and site analytics (52%). Other categories like audio/video players (12%) and social media (9%) have lower adoption.",
  chart_url="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vRC5wrzy5NEsWNHn9w38RLsMURRScnP4jgjO1mDiVhsfFCY55tujlTUZhUaEWzmPtJza0QA7w8S4uK5/pubchart?oid=1654856624&format=interactive",
  sheets_gid="657953413",
  sql_file="whotracksme_categories_top.sql"
  )
}}

> We observe that most trackers on webpages are related to Content Delivery Networks (CDNs) and advertising. At least one CDN-related tracker is present on 74% of webpages, followed by advertising-related trackers on 59%. Additionally, 55% of webpages include essential trackers (such as Google Tag Manager) and 52% contain analytics trackers (such as Google Analytics). This high concentration among a few key players effectively sets a baseline for web privacy, where the vast majority of user data flows through a small number of dominant platforms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, we consider all categories of WhoTracksMe. We observe that most webpages connect to domains categorized as Content Delivery Networks (CDNs) and advertising. At least one CDN-related domain is present on 74% of webpages, followed by advertising-related domains on 59%. Additionally, 55% of webpages include essential domains (such as Google Tag Manager) and 52% contain analytics domains (such as Google Analytics). This high concentration among a few key players effectively sets a baseline for web privacy, where the vast majority of user data flows through a small number of dominant platforms.
```
